README.md, before:

# CITS5505_Project
website for the project of CITS5505 Agile Web Dev
| UWA ID        | Name           | Github Username  |
| ------------- |:-------------: | ----------------:|
| 24109735      | Mihir Tayshete | manmikalpha      |
| 23841008      | Bhavik Mistry  | BhavikMistry98   |
| 23866945      | Pavan Potukuchi| PavanPotukuchik  |
| 23901924      | Ruth Fan       | ruthfan1991      |

# Summary:
Pawfect is a vibrant online platform dedicated to pet lovers who cherish capturing and sharing moments with their furry friends. This website will not only serve as a hub for pet photo sharing but also incorporate competition elements where users can win prizes based on community votes and sponsor decisions. 

Project Objectives:
-Engage Pet Lovers: Create a community space where users can share, like, and comment on pet photos.
-Organize Contests: Monthly photo contests with themes based on pet activities, seasons, and holidays.
-Award Prizes: Offer exciting prizes sponsored by pet-related businesses to encourage participation.
-Mobile Responsive Design: Ensure the website is accessible and fully functional on all devices.
-User-Friendly Interface: Design a clean, intuitive interface that makes navigation and photo uploading seamless.

Target Audience:
- Pet owners who enjoy sharing their pet’s activities and life.
- Pet industry brands looking for advertising opportunities and community engagement.
- General public who love animals and enjoy viewing pet photos.

Conclusion:
Pawfect aims to be more than just a pet photo sharing website—it will be a community where passion for pets is celebrated, and memorable moments are rewarded. With a focus on user engagement and content interaction, this platform will offer an enjoyable and rewarding experience for all pet lovers.
# Launching the application:

# Running the tests:

### Steps: 
       1. Open the terminal and navigate to the project directory.
       2. Run the flask application by running the following command:
          ```
          flask run
          ```
       3. Open a new terminal and navigate to the project directory.
       4. Run the following command to run the tests:
             ```
             python -m unittest discover tests
             ```



|# | TestCase Title                                                                                                              | 
|- |:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
|1 | To validate whether existing user is able to access the url -http://127.0.0.1:5000/| 
|2 | Register and then login into the Pawfect application.|
|3 | To validate whether existing user is able to reset password and login with new password and not with old password.|
|4 | To validate whether user is able to open the homepage and click the button it already exist.|
|5 | To validate whether exisiting user is able to upload the picture and run event page normally.|
|6 | To validate whether user is able to open the gallery page and click the button to see annual year picture.|
|7 | To validate whether user can open the about us page and the elements can be shown normally.|
|8 | To validate whether user is able to click on logout button.|
|9 | To validate whether user can open the forum page, ask question and others are able to answer it.|
|10| To validate whether the question and answers asked on the forum are stored in a database and are visible after reloading the page.|
|11| Test the entire project to ensure that all pages are interconnected smoothly and function seamlessly.|

Commit message:

added the method to run the project

README.md, after:

# CITS5505_Project
website for the project of CITS5505 Agile Web Dev
| UWA ID        | Name           | Github Username  |
| ------------- |:-------------: | ----------------:|
| 24109735      | Mihir Tayshete | manmikalpha      |
| 23841008      | Bhavik Mistry  | BhavikMistry98   |
| 23866945      | Pavan Potukuchi| PavanPotukuchik  |
| 23901924      | Ruth Fan       | ruthfan1991      |

# Summary:
Pawfect is a vibrant online platform dedicated to pet lovers who cherish capturing and sharing moments with their furry friends. This website will not only serve as a hub for pet photo sharing but also incorporate competition elements where users can win prizes based on community votes and sponsor decisions. 

Project Objectives:
-Engage Pet Lovers: Create a community space where users can share, like, and comment on pet photos.
-Organize Contests: Monthly photo contests with themes based on pet activities, seasons, and holidays.
-Award Prizes: Offer exciting prizes sponsored by pet-related businesses to encourage participation.
-Mobile Responsive Design: Ensure the website is accessible and fully functional on all devices.
-User-Friendly Interface: Design a clean, intuitive interface that makes navigation and photo uploading seamless.

Target Audience:
- Pet owners who enjoy sharing their pet’s activities and life.
- Pet industry brands looking for advertising opportunities and community engagement.
- General public who love animals and enjoy viewing pet photos.

Conclusion:
Pawfect aims to be more than just a pet photo sharing website—it will be a community where passion for pets is celebrated, and memorable moments are rewarded. With a focus on user engagement and content interaction, this platform will offer an enjoyable and rewarding experience for all pet lovers.
# Launching the application:
After downloading the project, follow the steps below to launch the application:

### Steps:
       1. Open the terminal and navigate to the project directory.
       2. Create a virtual environment by running the following command:
          ```
          python -m venv python3 -m venv myenv 
          ```
       3. Activate the virtual environment by running the following command:
         ```
         source myenv/bin/activate #for mac

         myenv\Scripts\activate #for windows

         .\myenv\Scripts\Activate.ps1 #for windows powershell(if the normal terminal doesn't allow to run the script)
         ```
       4. Install the required packages by running the following command:
         ```
         pip install -r requirements.txt
         ```
       5. Run the flask application by running the following command:
          ```
          flask run
          ```
       6. Open a web browser and navigate to the following URL:
         ```
         http://http://127.0.0.1:5000/
         ```
# Running the tests:

### Steps: 
       1. Open the terminal and navigate to the project directory.
       2. Run the flask application by running the following command:
          ```
          flask run
          ```
       3. Open a new terminal and navigate to the project directory.
       4. Run the following command to run the tests:
         ```
         python -m unittest discover tests
         ```



|# | TestCase Title                                                                                                              | 
|- |:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
|1 | To validate whether existing user is able to access the url -http://127.0.0.1:5000/| 
|2 | Register and then login into the Pawfect application.|
|3 | To validate whether existing user is able to reset password and login with new password and not with old password.|
|4 | To validate whether user is able to open the homepage and click the button it already exist.|
|5 | To validate whether exisiting user is able to upload the picture and run event page normally.|
|6 | To validate whether user is able to open the gallery page and click the button to see annual year picture.|
|7 | To validate whether user can open the about us page and the elements can be shown normally.|
|8 | To validate whether user is able to click on logout button.|
|9 | To validate whether user can open the forum page, ask question and others are able to answer it.|
|10| To validate whether the question and answers asked on the forum are stored in a database and are visible after reloading the page.|
|11| Test the entire project to ensure that all pages are interconnected smoothly and function seamlessly.|
